history
[Applause]
i'm ready to be beyonce today
ready to be beyonce today
now
the question
is
are you good morning good afternoon good
evening where you coming from hope you
all are doing
well
let's go
what's going on everybody hope
everybody's doing well hope you're ready
for another class uh bobby bangers
with the sub bangers only that's how we
start each stream
what's going on everybody let's get in
here
hey
we we we got the slow chat on tonight so
maybe a little little little a little a
little easier tonight maybe in the chats
to read the things but welcome everybody
hope you all are doing well
rufio what's up
what's going on everybody
hey so we got a question tonight
we got a question
the question tonight is
rob what's going on bringing the whole
gang let's go
thank you for the raid we're returning
the favor we're coming right back as
soon as i see you live after we're done
we're coming right back
what's up everybody hope your stream
went well thank you for joining us
we're all uh we're all ready to be
beyonce today so thank you for stopping
by thank you for being here
what's going on everybody all right so
the question the question in chat today
to start us off as folks get in they get
the stream right they get the volume up
is would you rather
win a bronze medal
at the olympics
or
be a recurring actor
on one season of a somewhat popular
netflix show so give me give me like
actor or or metal
what do you want
actor or metal
we should start doing polls for this
that's wild all right you know it's kind
of mixed it's kind of mixed
it's kind of mixed we're seeing actor
we're seeing metal
we're seeing both i like it
you know what i'm gonna go with
i'm gonna go with
i was gonna say metal metal came out so
easy like it was about to flow out the
tongue but
i don't know
what's what's what's going to last
longer
the olympics or or netflix i don't know
see why people go an actor i don't know
i think actor be more fun i feel like i
had to do more to get the medal i feel
like that's a lot of late nights early
mornings a lot i'm a big boy i'm a big
boy that's a lot of moving actor that's
it that sold it
sponsored by domino's pizza
actor it is for me welcome everybody
glad you're in here
rob thank you for the raid
what's going on all right so
tonight
we got a lot of stuff in store
last class we set the stage what does it
mean to be a software engineer what's
the opportunity that's in front of you
what
is the internet
what was the beginnings of html and
tonight we continue that so we're going
to lay down our first lines of code
together by the end of this stream you
will be a software engineer you'll be
writing code with the best of them and
so i hope you're ready for it
a lot of y'all came back i'm glad you're
here
don't tell the wife
welcome back everybody all right let me
bring up the uh the slides here we're
gonna go a little leon
cool
so agenda tonight
every
single
stream
we are going to get our spaced
repetition in
we're starting from the beginning and
these first couple classes we're
building up the steam
right
for some of you this might be a lot of
review for some of you this might be the
very first time
i care about the folks that are starting
from zero the very first time you can
always push yourself if you want all
right so we're gonna start at zero we're
gonna get our space repetition in but i
promise you
i promise you it picks up steam it gets
faster it gets harder but we start at
the beginning and we get our space
repetition
in
all right
after we get started i'm going to open
up some time for some questions after we
get started we're going to review the
client server model the basics of the
internet how do we make those requests
and receive those responses what the
heck is going on
hey what's up thank you so much for the
get the subs
after we review the client server model
we're jumping into the basics of html
we're viewing those tags we're seeing
some new ones we're seeing what's
changed with html5
once we kind of learn the basics
you're going to get the first chance to
get your fingers on those keyboards
right to get your fingers on those
keyboards and start coding an actual
assignment while we're live
after that we'll show a few more html
tags we'll talk about another important
rule last class we learned about
separation of concerns this class we're
going to learn about progressive
enhancement and then i will leave you
to the raid and then to your
homework
sound good we feel good
you ready to get into this
all right
every
stream i like to start off with some
questions so if you got a question
you got a question for me now is the
time to ask the question this just gives
folks a few more minutes to get here if
they're running late they had to grab
the the cheetos and they're running
they're they're they're they're opening
up the computer they're slamming to get
in here
what's a raid jesus said what's a raid
at the end of each stream we go to
somebody else's stream just to spread a
little bit of positivity
uh give them some follows and say what's
up
what is your headband uh my headband is
a buff
it's actually like what like it's like a
like a like you get rei like hikers use
it like to keep away mosquitoes but i
just like it it doesn't keep my hair too
tight
do you know of any coders with dyslexia
yes i absolutely do uh one of my most
more recent rc students had pretty
severe dyslexia
and
where we actually were able to come up
with a lot of tips and strategies on how
to like work around that and they wound
up getting a phenomenal job so if you
ping me in the ask leon channel
with just say like dyslexia resources
i'll i'll share them out but yeah
definitely doable
ibrahim in the house hey thank you for
the gift of subs
how do you use anki uh we'll share some
some videos that i think will be helpful
but we're also going to do it in class
so i'm going to show you my anki decks
we're going to break it all down we're
going to do that next week together
question if you miss class are you
screwed no
immediately after class the vods are
available
and then each weekend they go up on
youtube we have to have a little bit of
delay before the videos go up on youtube
because we're partnered here on twitch
any partners uh any any folks here that
are hearing impaired yes we have quite a
few uh just as a note you can turn on
closed captioning on twitch you can also
turn on closed captioning on available
god please no no
no
don't pay for anything if you are here
please do never pay a dime for anything
i will never ever give you a resource
that you have to pay for
right that that you had to pay for anki
is a completely free tool
you can use it for free on on mac os
windows gnu linux android
however if you want the app on ios there
is like a 25 version of that app do not
buy it you can use there are other free
ones you can get or you can use the web
version i use the web version a lot and
the web version is completely
free
please don't ever pay money
the whole point of this experience is to
go from complete beginner to employed
without paying any money to get there
you'll see a lot of folks are
subscribing a lot of folks giving out
gifted subs i appreciate that that goes
to a donation to the nonprofit i work at
during the day that does not go to me
there's no way for you to give me money
i want this to be a completely free
experience so
if i ever give you a resource there
sometimes are paid components to them
but you don't have to like with our
learning how to learn there is like if
you want the certificate you can pay for
it please don't do that completely
unnecessary
all right
one or two more questions we're going to
jump into it
will we
learn how to practice on our own
absolutely we're going to build up to it
though a lot of people love to come out
the gate
super hot right and they they they
really i mean and i understand it right
a lot of folks they're up against the
wall and coding is the way out i
understand it
but
i'm gonna i'm gonna um we're
we gotta realize that this program
is a jobs program okay let me say it one
more time
this is this is not necessarily a coding
program this is a
jobs program
what the heck does that mean well
if underwater basket weaving
if underwater basket weaving let me get
big
if underwater basket weaving
was a high-paying career
if it was consistently ranked
one of the happiest professions
if you could learn it for free and you
didn't need a degree
my ass would be on this stream with with
hold on i gotta get it
this would be stream
this would be it
this is what we'd be doing for the next
30 weeks
right we'd be sitting here this is how
you do it folks this is called a cross
weave this is a this is a top sectional
this is a fiber material uh this this is
this is the top of the line of basket
weaving technology
however
thankfully
that is not the case
it just so happens that
being a software engineer and full stack
web development is the path to a
high-paying job
that is consistently ranked one of the
happiest
that
you can learn for free and you don't
need a degree so let's not get it
twisted
that's why we're here folks
that's why we're here
cool
all right
let's jump into it
this isn't a programming course it is a
programming course let's not get that
wrong like we got to learn it to get to
the end goal
but um there are lots
and lots of programming courses out
there
that
let's be real
are
way more in-depth
probably cover way more material
that um are harder
that
may even be completely free
but they're not geared to get you a job
if you're just here to learn how to code
great hang out have some fun but this is
more than just learning how to code
i have been teaching people to how to
code for 10 plus years
and across those 10 plus years i have
done things the right way i have done
things the complete wrong way i've given
resources that have helped people get
closer to their goals and farther from
their goals
but
we're at a version of that where i feel
pretty confident
and that i'm just giving you straight
bangers i said we only started with
bangers today we're going to keep that
going throughout the entire course i'm
not going to give you material that
won't help you
i'm not going to give you material just
because i think i should assign it i'm
giving you material that i've literally
seen help others get to their end goal
of knowing how to code and being
confident enough to get a job as a
software engineer
i'm cutting out all the fluff
i don't care about being 100 correct
i don't care
about
teaching the
the the the thing that should be like no
i'm teaching the thing that's going to
help you get the job and i'm going to
make it so that it's a way where you can
pick it up you can absorb it you can
digest it and you can put it into
practice
hundreds of other places you could go if
that's not what you want that are
probably better harder
easier to to sit through that that but
no
what i've seen time and time again is
that there's too much crap
it's not distilled and there's no body
there to help that's what we're here for
cool
all right let's go back to little leon
here
we got a lot of stuff to catch up on
tonight
uh remember if you are here i would
appreciate you checking in please you
can do exclamation point
check in
uh the check-in is also always in the
discord messages that you get uh that
link will take you to the tweet please
go ahead and give it a retweet go ahead
and give it a like and uh that really
does help the community grow it does
help other folks find us so that
hopefully they don't wind up paying
hundreds and
like hundreds of dollars thousands of
dollars to learn the same stuff they can
learn here for free
also
this is
a practice you want to get into
twitter is going to be a really
important tool for us as we continue on
that networking piece that we talked
about on tuesday twitter makes that a
lot easier uh so when you check in
you're using that 100 devs hashtag you
can find each other
you can follow each other you can start
to build that network of folks that are
going to help
jorgen gave me the posture check all
right there we go get a nice little
posture check
somebody says i have heterochromia i do
have heterochromia how would you see it
maybe i want the big leon
means one of my eyes is a different
color than the other that's wild
thanks for paying attention
all right
we're making a lot of changes
and there is a lot of y'all
a lot of y'all showed up and a lot of
y'all came back i'm so happy that you're
taking this journey with us
but it is definitely
a surprise
and so
give us a little bit of time to make
things a
smooth and comfortable experience for
everyone you can see that we made some
changes here on uh on twitch we're using
slow mode we're making sure that if you
joined us recently so like if you're
brand new to the stream uh you have to
have been here for a few minutes before
you can start chatting you'll notice you
can only really send one message every
30 seconds so we're going to be playing
with those we're going to dial it in
we're going to figure out what works
what doesn't work right
and we're gonna make some changes right
we're gonna make some changes to the
twitch and then we're gonna make a lot
of changes to discord uh so this weekend
this saturday expect it to be wild on
discord uh we'll be getting rid of some
channels adding a lot of channels and
making it easier to use threads and to
find the things that you want to find
but we're going to make it nice and neat
and easy for everyone and so give us a
little bit of time
over the weekend myself the mods are
working really really hard to make this
a wonderful experience for you uh we're
blessed to have so many people that are
tuning in to join us on this experience
and build this community and build off
the community we built before and so i
asked for a little bit of time a little
bit of grace we're going to get there
with you
now
one of the other really exciting things
that are coming up
and one of the big things that people
keep asking me so i wanted to throw it
out there at the beginning
and that was hey leon
i want i want like a smaller group i
want to i want to get to know people
better uh why can't i have like this
type of group or that type of group
we're working on it uh next week we will
have a survey that will go out to all of
you
and you'll be able to select what type
of group you want to be involved in you
they're going to be like study groups
like a smaller microcosm of the 100 devs
community where you can get to know each
other better work together and so we're
gonna have it across different time
zones
uh different kind of languages
affinities uh groups so that you can all
come together and you're all gonna have
your own space on the discord so you'll
have your private text channel your
private voice channel so just know that
that's coming hopefully that'll make it
easier for you to make friends and to to
find the community
that you deserve here on twitch and
discord so just know that that's coming
uh that'll start happening next week and
then this weekend expect a lot of
changes on twitch and discord remember
we have our office hours on sunday so
i'm excited to see you all there
remember office hours are not required
it's just a time for us to come get
questions answered we're going to use a
slightly different format where you can
upvote the questions so the only bangers
get answered but yeah so lots of changes
to be had because a lot of folks showed
up but we're happy that you're here
now
i have one
major ask
i commit
hours upon hours each day to answering
you all on discord like
a lot of time
i don't know if you've looked in that
ask leon channel but i i just go in
waves and i respond to as much as i can
now
the the the ask i have of you is that
you please
only put
questions into the ask leon channel on
discord
don't respond to other folks don't say
even like thank you just put your
questions lady thank you for the
hydration lady raff thank you
just your questions
uh don't you don't have to say thank you
don't do any responses and the reason
why is because i need to be able to bang
through each of those questions right
and be able to answer you as quickly as
possible
so please keep keep that channel sacred
in a little bit of a way right just your
questions
uh just um
no responses
and
make sure that it's like a question that
only i could answer right so
if it's like something general about the
program when do i submit something where
do i do this there are plenty of other
100 devs channels that you could ask
those questions in where you're going to
be able to get the help that you need
all right i think uh folks found that
the gift itself makes sounds and now
they're using them so it's going to turn
down my sound
there we go
cool what am i drinking i'm always
drinking tea most likely on on stream
cool all right thank you so much for
that i appreciate that thank you
now a big question that came up a lot
between now in class was
homework when's it due ah
how do i turn it in right well don't
worry
homework is always due a week after it
is assigned so on
on tuesday
you were assigned
the two videos by ali abdal and you were
assigned the coursera course learning
how to learn
all of that is due
next
tuesday let me say it again
watching the two videos
and the entire
the entire
coursera learning how to learn course
not just the first week the entire
course
please
do not do the essays and do not pay for
the certificate but it's all four weeks
because it is straight heat it is the
thing that will be the difference maker
in your time with us here at 100 dose if
you can learn all those tools tips
tricks and put them into practice each
class you're going to be a lean mean
studying machine and i want that for you
so that's why i sign it now
the expectation
is that you're putting in at least 10
hours a week outside of class time
say again expectation right is that
you're putting in like 10 hours a week
outside of class time so that means
those two videos
and that course easy peasy right you
should be able to get that done
and notice i'm not giving you like
really wild programming assignments yet
we're not there yet we're gonna work our
way up to writing code and getting that
kind of being the main focus but it's so
much more important that you lay a
foundation of learning how to learn
before you
ramp up in terms of your technical
knowledge
yeah slow degree said two hours a day
yes remember we don't chunk our time we
take
a consistent approach
so many folks
start that journey to learn how to code
and they're they're on the starting line
and they trip and that's it
they had a brief moment where as they
were crashing into the ground they were
studying and then that was it
don't burn out don't trip out the gate
be beyonce all right
oh before i also move on is that the
homework that is assigned today will be
due next thursday so you're going to
have some extra work that's assigned
today that is due next thursday so next
week some of those 10 hours are going to
be doing not only the homework through
tuesday but the homework due thursday as
well
now
some of you
well you all came back so that means
something
right we lost a few folks that's that's
expected right we're going to lose some
as people figure out like is this
experience for me or not
but you came back so that's great
and
for some folks
when they start to hear
all of the things that have to get done
right they start to hear all right leon
i need
to watch videos i need to do homework i
need to do all these things you're
standing on the tip of this hill
all right you're standing on the tip of
this hill looking over into the trough
of sorrow
and you all have a decision
to make
i can't make that decision for you
you all have a decision to make
right
do you
want to become a software engineer
and are you going to commit to the
process what it takes to become a
software engineer
i can't make that decision for you
what i can do over this week and next
week is present the opportunity to you
i presented it on tuesday we're going to
present it again tonight
but what i can tell you is that i have
helped hundreds
thousands of people
go on this journey
i know where you're going to get stuck
i know where you're going to hit a
roadblock and i'm going to try and make
it as smooth as a process as i possibly
can
so if you're standing on top of you
doomy hill and you're looking over and
screaming
know that you are in good
company now
i have a secret to tell you
i tell you my secret
in your
arms
i have a secret to tell you i'm going to
show you something
on my github
github is a place that you can store
your code so you can share with other
developers
on my github
i've and don't you all do this this is
this is this is for other people on my
github i've had this for a very long
time
if you're learning how to code i'm happy
to build you a custom learning plan that
takes into account your strengths and
what you want to learn
this has been on my github for a while
but i've also made this promise to lots
of folks
at my day job i run a boot camp called
resilient coders and we have hundreds
and hundreds of people
that come to learn how to code
at resilient coders we used to have open
office hours before the pandemic where
anyone from the city could stop in
meet us and i would build them out a
custom learning plan
now
what i always told these individuals was
hey
i will happily build you out a custom
learning plan i will build out the next
couple weeks for you i will meet with
you every week we'll go through it
together we'll make sure you get unstuck
when you get unstuck but here's what i
want you to do first
here's what i want you to do first
i want you to do
the first segment of free code cam
i want you to do the html and css all
the way to that first that first project
do it and when you come back to me
i am going to build you out a full plan
i will be your mentor i will meet with
you week by week by week
okay
i gave that promise
to
hundreds of people
let's say out let's say the first
hundred
out of the first hundred people i made
that promise to
just do this first section of a of a
program
come back to me and we'll work out the
rest
out of that first hundred
how many you think actually came back to
me with it done
some people already know
how many out of the first hundred that i
gave that promise to how many came back
to me with it done
two
now
that's nothing against free code camp i
love free code camp i think it's a great
way to get some some practice in but it
speaks to
something
bigger
it's that a lot of folks
come out the gate wanting to learn how
to code
but something happens
something happens
something happens that stops them
from getting to the thing that they
wanted
people are saying stress
sadness burnout
they're so the devil
there are so many things that will stop
someone
from being successful at learning to
code even if they really wanted it
and we talked about some of the
solutions to these problems
but i have found
a method
that increases the success rate
of that gambit that i've given to people
so
the first thing
that helps people when i give them that
first assignment to actually get through
that trough of sorrow to get through
that initial push of wanting to learn
how to code that very first thing is
community
if they don't have community
they don't come back
the students that would come back to our
like open office hours every week those
were the ones that actually continued on
the path to learning how to code
right it was the folks that that knew
when they sat down the room they were
around other people even if they didn't
talk to a single person in that room
just being in that room knowing that
other people were grinding out learning
how to code that energy
right that made them more successful
so community
was one of the very first things that i
saw
that unlocked the ability to actually
get over that initial hump of learning
that's why all of us being here together
is so important
right it's why us coming together on
tuesday thursdays and sundays is
important
it's why discord as wild as it is right
now
is so
important
there's a reason i don't use a forum
there's a reason why we make it so that
it's live
there's a difference when you're with
folks that are going through the same
experience there's a difference when
there's folks that will help you get
unstuck and there's a difference just
when the energy is in the room
and so i am glad
that you came back here
i'm glad that you want to go on this
journey together
and i'm glad that you found us
because we're going to work tirelessly
to build a community that supports each
and every single one of you on that
journey to learn how to code so that
that two
is a number that i don't ever have to
talk about again
now
we talked about the other things last
class
that help folks
make it to the end
and screw making it to the end let's
make it to next week first
so many folks come out the gate
should i do this tutorial should i do
that tutorial
i'm freaking out like there's so much on
the line
let's let's just chill for a second
let's get the next week
we got 30 of them let's let's get the
next week first
let's get the next week first
you'll have plenty of time to go chase
that thing in that thing let's focus
maybe for the first time in a while
let's focus
on one process
one way of doing things and let's do it
together so that we can make it to next
week and the next one and the next one
there are lots of other things that
could take up your attention that could
suck up your mental energy for learning
but what i'm telling you is i have laid
a path that has helped
thousands of people learn how to code
and hundreds get jobs and i'm gonna keep
saying that you don't need to take my
word for it
i make these claims i check the weather
and it's real hoppy outside
i always check the weather when i make
these claims it gets real real hoppy
outside
and so
what i want you to do is to not to not
take my word for it
but
go to the celebrations channel don't
spam in the celebration channel but go
to celebrations channel i pinned
50 folks that got jobs
that were celebrating this community
that we're celebrating that this
community was the thing that helped them
get across the finish line
so don't take my word for it literally
just go to celebrations channel
look at the pinned
messages that are in that
channel and i pinned 50 of them
you know why there's only 50.
know why there's only
50.
there's only 50 because that's all it
lets you pin i could keep going baby i
could keep going i could keep going but
that's the limit
that is the limit that's all they let me
do so that's what i had to do that's
what i had to do they said they only get
50. that's what i had to do
i pinned 50 because that's what i had to
but guess what there's more
[Music]
go check
all right
that's all i got to say about that
i pin 50 because that's all i could pin
only bangers
we don't get got all right
so we talked about community we go get
exactly we don't get got we go get
around here
all right
10 50 what so i went into the
celebrations channel and i pinned every
person that mentioned getting a job and
celebrating this channel so don't take
my word for it
ignore the ops go take go take a look
for yourself
all right
now the the other things that we talked
about that get you off of this
this hill of
of damnation
we talked about community being one of
the secrets but it's that idea of
managing
frustration
right
all of you all are about to get
frustrated
like real
there there's there's no way
that you make it through this program
without being at a point
where you want to give up
every single one of you're going to hit
that point
and the difference between folks that
make it from here
to the end
are simply individuals when they have
the privilege of being here
don't give up
now
the next thing
we talked about was that consistency
making sure that we're not chunking our
time we learned
we learned right we learned
that if we chunk our time if we just
study all day saturday that that is less
effective as a study habit than it is to
spread out our learning each day
no chunkers there you go
and the last thing
that i see folks
time and time again trip up on is they
don't take care of themselves they don't
take care of themselves
they they burden themselves with having
to juggle
14 different tutorials and feeling like
they got a grind leak code until their
eyes fall out they're staying up until
three o'clock in the morning because
they got a code code code when they
would be way better off
having stopped six hours ago
had some tea
given a light stretch and gone to bed
so give me give me a couple weeks give
me a month
give me a month to paint a picture at
the end of the month if you're like
screw it leon i don't like this you can
go it was free you can go but i think if
you give me that month
to show you
that you can manage that frustration
that you can be consistent that we can
create a space where not only you are
learning but you are taking care of
yourself i think you're gonna find that
maybe for a lot of you it's the first
time that a lot of this clicks
now
part of that consistency
right
is making a plan
you gotta make a plan
you gotta make a plan for how your days
are gonna be structured
a lot of folks wake up and go into their
day like an accident
you can't do that anymore
if you're committing to becoming a
software engineer and learning
everything that it takes
to get to that job within these 30 weeks
you got to wake up with a plan
so what i do is every month i plan out
my month
every sunday i plan out my week
and then i plan out every single day
my google calendar i wish i could show
it to you
every single day
has exactly what i should be doing and
where i should be
if it's not on my calendar it does not
happen
and that's that's a symptom of some of
the issues i deal with day to day but
for me that's the that's the way that
the plan works
so one of the things i want you to do
this weekend
is to make a plan
what are your days going to look like
when are you going to study
what works for you
right
and then you must realize that you might
have to get some other folks involved
right a lot of you have partners or a
lot of you have family or a lot of you
have
jobs or other responsibilities you got
to plan
that in you got to have those
conversations with those that you care
about saying hey look
i'm committing to these next 30 weeks
because i think it's the best move for
myself for you for our family for our
friends and so i'm gonna need some time
some of you might actually have to ask
for that time because it's not a given
some of you might have to realize that
studying in the morning is way easier
than studying at night
and so make a plan
if you want to be one of the folks that
make it to the end they all had a plan
they didn't go into each day hoping to
find the time to study that time the
study was already on their calendar and
that calendar was already shared with
their partner
cool
now
talked about the the other kind of
little tricks that i've noticed that
help folks get through the beginning
stages of learning how to code community
is the biggest managing frustration
being consistent with a plan being
consistent with a plan
taking care of themselves getting good
sleep hydrating
every single one of my resilient coders
cohorts
every single one somebody goes to the
hospital
every every single one we've ever taught
somebody's gone to the hospital
every single one
and it's always because their hands
start to hurt
their hands start to hurt they start to
get really serious pain in their
forearms and their wrists and their
fingers
and that's always because when i said
this very important thing
take care of yourself they don't do it
so when we take those breaks at the top
of the hour
please
take that break
get out from your chair
right if you're able to
walk around if you're able to
make sure you're letting your eyes focus
on something that is not what you'll be
focusing on let your hands relax shake
them out give a little bit of a light
stretch i'm going to share some videos
next week on the stretches that i do to
stay healthy i'm a big boy but i still
stretch every day
i have a
a split keyboard a rollerball mouse like
i i take this seriously and so
that taking care of yourself is a lot
it's it's
understanding
that what you're about to do you might
not have ever done before
hitting all those accessory keys makes
your fingers move in ways that unless
you have some people play saying they
played piano unless you play piano
you've never really stretched your
fingers in those ways you've never
stretched your forearms in those ways it
is a serious
toll on your body so you have to take
care of yourself
right you got to get that sleep in if
you want memory consolidation to happen
so they've made a plan they're taking
care of themselves and then here here's
a cheat code
ready for a cheat code
tell someone
i want every
single one of you right now
to tell someone
that you
are becoming a that know [__] that that
you are a software engineer
and that you are committed to learning
web development over the next 30 weeks
tell someone
if you don't have someone to text or
call
put it up on twitter put it into the
void
all right tell someone i'm serious i'm
gonna stop right here i'm gonna put the
tunes on
go ahead i'm gonna put a timer up
i'm gonna give you a minute
you want the chico this is it
it's that commitment
tell someone
go for it
i'll wait
you're a software engineer you're
committed to learning web development
tell someone
oh oh [__] i didn't even realize hold up
[__]
that was not intentional
all right
got 20 seconds left to tell someone
done i see a bunch of duns
nice
all right there we go
all right let's come back you told
someone beautiful
that was the first cheat code
you ready for the second cheat code
i gave you the first one telling someone
does something to our brains where we
have to be more successful
are you ready for the second cheat code
here's the second one
[Laughter]
now tell everyone
tell everyone
put it public
go on your your your your instagram your
twitter whatever it is
tell everyone i'm serious whatever
social media you use the most where the
most people that care about you will see
it
put it
software engineering my journey becoming
a full stack web developer
do it
put in your bio
live that life i'm going to give you
another minute for this
you got that
you got
so
i'm telling you you asked leon what are
the tricks what are the secrets
there's there's there's i guarantee you
at least a thousand of you that are not
going to do this and in a couple weeks
from now when times are getting tough
and you're like leon my brain's just not
working why can't i sit down and study
more it's because you didn't do this
right now
my students that share publicly what
they're doing their aspirations the
things that they're working on they
succeed you got got
i'm gonna be with you got cop
don't you take the 20 seconds
hold your family good twitter bio is
updated wonderful
kimberly's boyfriend looked at them
sideways that's all right
you'll see
kimberly they're going to see
they're going to realize
wonderful
that's the secret folks
that's the secret you put it out there
people now know and here's the beautiful
thing about this
you will be surprised how many folks are
in your network that are also software
engineers or that needs somebody to
build a website to do things so the more
you put it out there
the more that comes back your way
now you're a little bit more accountable
you've built up some things here that
are that are in your
favor
all right you've built up some things
that were in your favor you're
committing right you're committing to a
community
a community that you're going to support
and then in turn is going to support you
you're committing to knowing how to
manage your frustration or at least
working on it knowing that in the moment
when you are frustrated there's
something that you are going to work on
you're committing to consistency and a
plan for each one of your days to learn
how to code
you're committing to the idea of taking
care of yourself
not over extending taking breaks when
you need them or should take them and
getting good sleep
you've told someone you've told everyone
now you got to do it
and on the days where you feel like you
can't do it guess what we're here to
help
all right
last class we saw
uh the amazing amazing
active recall uh anybody get a chance to
watch the videos yet they're amazing i
hope you got a chance to watch them
already if not you're in for a treat
this weekend
active recall
the idea
that i can do
a fourth of the work
and get better results
is mind-blowing
we know that if you were to just
read something once and then actively
recall the things that you learned
you were better off than rereading that
material
four
times four times folks you're better off
once
and a recall versus four
times come on now now here's the real
question
we had a lovely raid phenomenal raid rav
is one of the best people on this earth
always in our discord helping everyone
but after that raid
the active recall
did you actively recall the things that
we learned yes i'm looking at you
you right there in the back right there
did you actively recall
because if you didn't
you [__] up
if you didn't
you [__] up so that's all right it's
all right
all right it's cool
all right it was the first one you
didn't listen to me that one
listen to me now
when you go through these classes
remember we're not taking notes we know
that's an inefficient right it's an
inefficient study habit but probably
taking questions is a really good idea
right so taking questions so that at the
end of stream
right at the end of stream
you can go to the raid have some fun
hang out i'm always hanging out post
raid and then when the raid's done you
feel good you look through your
questions
right you look through your questions
and you actively recall
now today
right
today
today you're gonna get into more
material
right you're gonna get into more
material and so today it's really
important that you do actually actively
recall post class you could have got
away with it a little bit last class but
no more classes will you be able to get
away without actively recalling
okay
and that's because
learning to code
is a cumulative career
the things that we learn today
are things that you're going to have to
put into action next week the week after
months from now years from now and so we
have to flatten our forgetting curve
right now
if you put in all the work
if you watched all the videos if you
paid attention the whole class you
actively recalled after that class there
is still
a good chance
that by
day eight
you forgot everything
there's a good chance even if you did
everything right you came you took
questions you actively recalled right
all right
there is still a good chance
that in eight days you will have
forgotten something and so we need to
flatten our forgetting curves right we
need to flatten our forgetting curves
and make sure that you're using some
sort of space repetition tool like enkei
enki will stop this forgetfulness from
happening
and so please when you make your plans
this weekend and you're setting up your
days for studying and for class don't
forget to include
anki
i can't use it unless you show me leon
no
that's not how this course is gonna work
you are all gonna get
super powers
your ability to google will be next
level
your ability to figure things out will
be next level
and then when you really have given it
the good old
boot camp try
right when you've given it the good old
boot camp try you've researched you've
put in the work and you can't figure it
out and you come to discord we'll be
there to help you
all right but you got to take control
all right you got to be the type of
person that solves the problems that
comes their way
because that's what a software engineer
does
we solve problems that have not been
solved before and we get paid good money
to do it
so you need to start practicing that
right you got to start practicing that
every day
now i'm not going to skip the good stuff
or the big stuff we're always going to
have classes on it we're going to have a
class on anki
but please before you say oh what about
this what about that give it a try get
into that mode of researching exploring
trying to figure out on your own before
you come to the community to get unstuck
it's freeing
right it's being freeing
all right
there's people saying like start already
leave
go don't you don't have to be here
but close your eyes like take out your
headphones and like walk away
uh this is called
spaced repetition
if you were here last class you know
what we're doing
every single class is going to be like
this
right every single class is going to be
like this where we spend a good 30
minutes plus reviewing
because folks here
are starting from the beginning
you can go do some other tutorial you
can go do some other stuff if you want
you don't have to be here skedaddle
leave sayonara i i don't need you here
because every single class guess what
we're going to start off
by actively recalling
getting our space repetition in and in
the beginning it's going to be a third
of class as we get further into the
course guess what we don't need to
repeat as much
right you don't have to repeat as much
if you don't want to be here don't be
here
i don't know why you're here go
i'm looking cute today that's what it is
that's all it is folks i'm looking cute
today
it's my my raw animal magnetism that's
pulling them in
they're staying here for that i
understand i get it you came here for
the code
you you met me and now you're in love
and like you just can't go away so
you're you're frustrated you don't know
how to handle the the
the the feelings that you have right now
that's okay
we're here for you
but uh you can just close your eyes
that's all you got to do
alrighty
alrighty now
to continue our space repetition i got
him
[Laughter]
got him to continue our space repetition
and we say bye-bye
we got him
oh
and we say bye-bye
to continue our space repetition
um we are going to talk about what is
the internet we're going to review the
basics what the heck does a front-end
web developer do what does a back-end
web developer do why are we software
engineers but also full stack web
developers so we're going to review that
but before we review it
it's top of the hour
this is the top of the hour we must stay
healthy
must be beyonce we must take
our break so let me go ahead and slide
up the five minute timer here
we're going to take our full five
minutes
cool
put some tunes on please if you are able
get up stretch move around
go to the bathroom
say hello to your loved ones
i don't know
play with your your rubik's cube
whatever whatever gets you going during
the break to get you away from the
screen moving around let your eyes focus
on something else and we'll be back in
four minutes and 38 seconds
cool all right folks uh please take that
break i am going to take the break
myself and i will see you soon
if people want bob
you'll get bob
you
um
so
my
do
you
how are you liking the eagles chances
this weekend
i don't really follow football i know
i'm a bad philadelphian
i don't really follow sports honestly
other than like rugby
basically my grandfather calls me and
keeps me up to date
i'm from california is the philly
cheesesteak that good it's the best the
best of the sandwiches by far
bill's on 24th street best cheesesteak
spot in philly
mods if anybody says something other
than phil's in 24th street give him a
light band
something he'll eat a real flu cheese
steak
do you fancy ponyta's
there was um a meta a couple years ago
that was like the rapid dash and like
the ponyta meta there was a meta deck
that was really good
my google calendar is much more busy now
let's go
all right folks come on back
come on back
uh you can actually see if you do
estimation point pokemon
in chat there is like the list of
pokemon cards that are available for
um
channel points
and i send them anywhere in the world
it's another bunch you can see that you
can see what's on the list there
all right folks come on back hope you
had a good break
yeah hold on let me see if i can grab
the
list here
yeah so we can see here we got some good
ones and these values are way off now
like way off in terms of value i have no
idea what these cards are worth right
now but
we got some some good cards here we got
like the full
the full legendary sets which are pretty
cool
um
i used to run a typhlosion deck that was
really like a big deal in one of the
older metas um so i got a bunch of like
the good typhlosions yeah so there you
go
something some other fun things you can
do at channel points if you would like
remember channel points you just get by
being here so the more you're in stream
the more channel points you get
and uh when we do raids if you do the
raid you also get channel points
favorite pokemon is bulbasaur
all right
let's get back into it folks we got a
lot of stuff to get to tonight and so i
want to make sure we we cover it all
let's come on back come back from your
stretches grabbing your water and let's
go through this together
all right so
last class we talked about what the
internet is
so chat what is the internet
a wire it's wires series of cables
how i get milk
series of tubes wires across oceans yeah
it starts off with a wire right and we
can actually look at these transatlantic
internet cables and see them so we got
these like big beefy cables that lay
across the ocean
and we can see that there's a bunch of
them all across like connecting all the
countries together
um
these were like originally telegraph
cables like the first people to do that
and then like eventually they became
fiber cables and other wonderful stuff
now and so
there are a lot of these right these are
there's a lot that we know i'm sure like
high frequency trading firms and like
um
other governmental agencies have their
own as well but there's a lot of these
cables that connect around the world in
fact there was this trading firm that
ran a cable from new york to chicago
just to get a better connection which is
pretty cool and so we have these wires
that we can send data across
and the idea of the internet is that
we can have this system that relies on
top of this protocol called http and
it's a system where we can send requests
and get responses and it's a system
where we can make requests from our
client-side devices
and get a response from our server
what type of code
runs on our client-side devices that we
know of so far what type of code do we
know that runs on our client-side
devices
html css javascript yup these are all
client-side like all code that runs on
the client side and so someone that
specializes in that html css and
javascript the html that we're going to
be writing today somebody that
specializes in that html that
css.javascript
what would we call them like what would
be their job title
yep they'd be a front-end web developer
right they're a web developer developing
stuff for the web
but if they focus just on the client
side they focus just on the stuff that
runs on our phones or tablets or
desktops in the browser we would call
them a front-end web developer now
those devices make requests to our
servers and our servers do a lot of
stuff the primary thing that a server
does is it listens for those requests
and there's some code that's running on
it that knows how to respond to those
requests sometimes it hears a request
from our client
side device and it needs to talk to a
database or it needs to process a credit
card or it needs to just respond with
some things right so the code that runs
on the server if you focus just on that
what type of developer would you be
someone that just focus on stuff that
runs on the server
yeah
you'd be a backend web developer and
then just the last question here if you
worked on both the server side and the
client side both the front end and the
back end you consider yourself a what
a full stack web developer and that's
exactly what we are to be here we are
full stack of developers now
if you're someone that can write code
conduct yourself as a professional knows
the tools and systems behind the code
that you're writing maybe knows a little
bit more about the the math and the the
the efficiency of the code you're
writing what would you call yourself
you would call yourself a software
engineer exactly so
after today we will all be software
engineers
that focus on
full stack web development
right you just told your friends that's
what we're doing here we're trying to
become full stack web developers right
we're already software engineers but
we're going to focus on full stack web
development we could go write code for
robots we could go write code for
refrigerators we're focusing on a skill
called full stack web development and
the reason
why we're focused on full stack of
development is solely because of job
demand
right now there is an overwhelming
amount of demand for
web developers specifically folks that
know the front end and the back end and
the beautiful thing is you only need to
learn one language and that's javascript
because javascript works both on the
front end and the server side by
something called
node
right
so there's this beautiful window open
right now where we don't have to go and
learn ruby and rails we have to learn
python
we can learn javascript and write code
both on the client side and the server
side
it's a good time to be alive folks
all right
now last class i said
separation of concerns was the golden
rule the most important thing that i was
going to teach you
right
why is this rule so important why do we
why do we want our html separate from
our css our css separate from our
javascript why is that important
yeah for organization exactly when we
come back to our code a month later we
wanted to be able to go to a place and
figure something out right you want to
know where to go
if we're working with other developers
we want to be able to tell them where to
go and look to find things so
if i said to you hey i want to make my
pizza ordering app right i want i want
to be able to drag the ingredients onto
the pizza shout out dominoes right
i want to drag those ingredients onto
the pizza
what what technology am i using
yeah i'd be using javascript and if
domino's
comes out with a new ingredient that
they're now making available to all
their pizzas
and they have to update the content on
that website
what technology would we use to list
that new ingredient
yeah be html nice and if that new
ingredient is
blue
all right if it's blue i don't think i
can use green if i use green i think
it'll get chroma keyed
yeah that's green it's just chroma keyed
outside the green screen behind me so if
it was blue or green do blue get chroma
keyed no it's interesting it was blue or
green what would we use yeah css cool so
if domino's
adds a new ingredient that content
that's html
if that content is gonna be blue or
green that's css and then if they wanna
make it so they can drag it onto the
pizza that's all javascript
we learned some stuff last class look at
us
look at us chat hey
proud of you keep it going keep it up
all right
we also learned the beginnings of html
now
we we briefly mentioned
that html and css are not really
programming languages they're what we
call markup languages uh alan turing
modern grandfather of computer science
had this completeness test that said if
you give a language like an operation
and you get a response back
then you might be dealing with like a
programming language so
if i was to give html
two plus two
i'm never getting four back
if i was to give css
five plus five i'm never getting 10 back
but if i was to give javascript i don't
know three plus three it's gonna give me
six back all day long right and so that
makes html and css not full programming
languages but rather markup languages
but they're all languages the same and
just like any language there's gonna be
spelling and grammar rules that that
language has to abide by like when
you're writing spanish you have the
enyes right like when you're learning
other languages you might have special
characters right that you could use each
language has its own
spelling grammar punctuation that makes
it up
when we're talking about markup
languages and programming languages we
call that
syntax
right
so each language will have its own
syntax thank you mac thank you for the
hydration cheers to you
each language has its own
syntax all right now
the beautiful thing about html
is that
we have
an opening tag
and a closing tag
every bit of content that you have on
the page must be wrapped in tags
and sometimes those tags we give them a
little bit of like a super power and we
call those super powers an attribute
value pair
for today and next week we won't really
have to worry about too many of these
attribute value pairs there are kind of
like two that we're going to run into a
lot when we have links that link has to
go somewhere so there will be a special
attribute value pair for that
and then when we get to images they're
going to need like a source that shows
you what image to show so outside of
those we won't really see too many and
today we're going to cover the basic
tags that you need to be successful for
building pretty much any website
we're gonna learn about 15 tags today
they're probably around like 30 that i
use day to day and there are a bunch
more
there is a wonderful website however
called the mdn the mozilla developers
network it's by the people that make
firefox well they have this
documentation for html css and
javascript it's actually linked as part
of your homework on discord but anything
that you would ever want to know about
html is on this site and it's beautiful
it's perfect it's always good and so
you're gonna typically keep the mdn
open
while you're working on this stuff
okay
jasmine don't worry we're gonna we're
gonna talk more about those actual value
pairs give me a chance to show you one
live
cool
with w3school suffice no get out of here
run
absolutely not
absolutely not so what happened with
w3schools
is remember we talked about that world
wide web consortium the w3c that certain
burners lee created well w3 schools
just kind of like took that name
right
and built out like their site
and when it first started it was
horrendous
like it was really bad and they always
had wrong stuff on there they didn't
update it and so it was just it was just
bad all around
and it was the bane of my existence
because they had really good seo it
always showed up but it just led my
students astray
they over the past few years have like
modernized it and made it better but
they don't get a pass
they [__] up they ruined the web for a
while so it's over we're not making up
they're done
so no
get out of here
mdn is where it's at
we also took a quick
we took a quick peek at this
first kind of throw at html i didn't
want you to type any of this stuff i
just wanted to show you some html
and we were kind of running out of time
so i went a little bit quicker
day ops exactly raised
adam to add them to the ops list
uh
we we added some html here you can see
that all of my content right
all of my content is wrapped in tags
there's not any text
that is not wrapped in tags you can see
that everything is wrapped in these
lovely tags right
this is vs code yep yes code now
we have here this last paragraph
and this last paragraph is appropriately
wrapped in that paragraph tag remember
each tag that we choose has a rhyme and
reason like the purpose behind why we
would pick that tag
anybody remember what what that's called
like the purpose or the rhyme and reason
behind why we chose that tag the
specific word for that
yes semantics the semantic meaning yes
so this was a big block of text
so semantically it is a paragraph so i
wrapped it in a paragraph tag beautiful
now
if we were to read this paragraph
however
let me read it
if you would like real-time answers to
your questions please join our discord
here
what the heck does here
sound like what is what should that be
a link yeah it should be a link so in
html we have a tag
that handles
links
okay we have a tag that handles links
and so that tag
is an anchor tag so i'm going to go
ahead i'm going to open up my a tag
then i'm going to go around the text
where i want it to close and then notice
how the closing tag
simply the only differentiation is that
it has a lovely forward slash so the
open tag and the closing tag are the
same except for that forward slash
however
remember
we talked about those super powers
right we talked about how sometimes we
need our tags to do
a little bit more
right we need our tags to just be able
to do something a little bit extra and
so
our anchor tags which are for our links
has an attribute value pair that we can
use
i don't like this uh go into the new
line has an attribute value pair that we
can use right that is called an href
so the href equals and then inside these
quotes
i can put the link so our discord link
is https
forward slash forward slash leon
noel.com
discord
right that's the actual link to our
now
the text right
the text that will show up in the
browser and don't worry about following
along right now i'm just showing you you
shouldn't be typing anything
right you're here to absorb right now
right
what you'll notice
is that this text here will still show
up
however
when i click on it
it'll go
to this link
that's the power of having
an attribute called an href our anchor
tags or our link tags can have that href
that'll take the user somewhere now
something interesting about this page
right now
this page
is not saved
can anyone in chat tell me how i know i
have not saved my work
what does href stand for it stands for
hypertext reference
remember how we said that the protocol
that the internet uses that http that
hypertext transfer protocol well this
href is a hypertext reference it's old
school it's how the internet works
yeah this dot at the top right
this dot at the top
tells me
that my
start at the top
tells me that my
file has not been
saved right and so as soon as i save
you can see that that dot goes away
right as soon as that dot goes away
i can't even repeat that but it's
hilarious uh
as soon as as soon as we um save that
dot goes away
and we are able to now go ahead and open
this uh
go ahead and open this in our browser so
irish you already have it open and if i
come over here and i refresh
we'll notice that this here
right this here
right this here is underlined and like
purple or blue
why the heck
is this like underlined and purple
why the heck is
the the h1 big bold black and beautiful
much like myself why is that all there
what happened
yeah that's automatically coming from
the browser
remember how we said the browser wars
back in the day on tuesday every browser
is kind of fighting to be the best well
there are still some things that
browsers do by default
and if you are a front-end web developer
this is one of the things you have to
think about when you start a project
there are many ways to handle this
problem of having not written css we
didn't write any css
we didn't write any css
so this shouldn't be happening this is
one of the things that uh we have to
start remembering i like to call these
money problems
because they're problems but that's what
makes us the money because we know how
to fix these and as we go on i'll show
you how to fix these right now however
when we write html
do i care how it looks
let me say it one more time when i write
html do i care how it looks
no i don't
i'll be able to fix all of that
right i'll be able to fix all of that
when i get to css
right when i get to css i can go ahead
and fix anything that looks the way i
don't want it to look
right
and so what i want you to make sure that
you're doing
right
is make sure that when you're writing
html
right when you're writing html
do not care what it looks like we'll get
there with css
cool
all right so we looked at that about
page
and um
what you're going to notice is there
there are some rules
when it comes to html right and one of
the things you might be saying
is leon who cares
who cares if i use the semantically
appropriate tag like why does that
matter right why does it matter if i use
the semantically
appropriate tag
well there are actually three big
reasons
why you should care about writing
semantically appropriate html like
picking the right tags and using them
correctly
one of the first reasons is that if you
do not use the appropriate tags
and the appropriate
attribute value pairs your content might
just not render so for our general users
if you're not using the regular tags
right
you might not give your users a good
experience things might break they might
not be in the right spot and so using
the appropriately semantic tags means
that your general users are going to
have good content displayed the way that
you wanted it to be shown
now the second set of users we want to
be concerned about are folks that may be
using accessibility devices folks that
may be consuming the web in a way
that the general public might not we're
talking about things like screen readers
things that make it easier for certain
folks to use and consume the web
if you are not using the appropriate
semantic html tags things like screen
readers have a more difficult time
moving through the content of your page
right and then the last users that we
want to be concerned with are web
crawlers we want to make sure that when
google tries and comes and figures out
what our site is about so that it can
list it in the search engines right we
call this seo search engine optimization
if we do not use the appropriate
semantically structured
html tags google will not rank your
content
so
i like to say we have a moral reason and
a greedy reason
morally i hope everyone in this person
every person in this community cares
about accessibility and uses the correct
and appropriate html tags so that folks
have a better experience on the web but
then there are also greedy reasons
first the greedy reason is that you want
your website to rank in google and if
you're not using the right tags
it won't show up in google and then the
other greedy reason is that individuals
using accessibility devices is a large
portion of the internet you have a lot
of your customers future consumers of
your content that are using
accessibility devices and if you don't
use the right tags they won't be able to
enjoy it
so
pick which one you care about but
remember
you are all
newly united developers of the web it is
your job to go out there and do good and
with this information that is your
mandate
cool
now we'll we'll cover more accessibility
stuff as it goes on
um
for today we're not going to go too deep
into it but we're going to have a full
class on accessibility
all right
now i would like to take a look at some
tags remember we said every html tag has
a specific
reason right that it would be used and
so we want to look at some tags and see
all right in what situations would i use
that tag what is the semantic reasoning
behind that tag when we choose tags to
write in our html it comes down to two
things it comes down to the semantic
importance behind that tag and it comes
down to the importance behind that
content
right
so folks are having some trouble with
the closed captioning we'll have to
figure that out when we take a break
i'll double check
alrighty now this right here was a uh
this was a
youtube rabbit hole for me
right this right here we're gonna look
at some tags and i don't mean this type
of tag
i mean like the html tags and so
the
this was a pretty deep youtube poll this
is this is like a weekend or two of just
consuming content this is competitive
tag
imagine if the sport of tag
had a full community
an audience and brought in all the best
free runners and parkour specialists to
play tag
yes the ocho exactly uh it's amazing i
watched every single episode i could
find on youtube so tonight i'm not
talking about competitive tag i'm
talking about
html tag
got the store army in here i see y'all
all right
so
here are the first set of tags that
we're going to look at
all right here's the first set of tags
we'll look at heading elements these are
called heading elements you've seen
heading elements all the time
heading elements are the elements on a
page that describe all the content that
comes after it so if you've ever been to
like say a news website you're typically
going to have like a heading that
describes the article that comes after
it
right
and so when we're looking at our content
we might have multiple headings
throughout the page
and there are six kinds of headings you
can have an h1 a two a three a four a
five or a six
typically the most important content on
your page the thing that describes the
page the best or whatever else is to
come that heading gets the h1
right so if that content is the most
important
how many h1s do you think we should have
yeah
you should have one h1 it is the most
important thing on the page so you
should have one now
there's that this is this is how i know
that i know you're watching
there's just somebody that literally
when i said there should only be one h1
this is what they did they went
only on i don't know
i don't know about that there is this
one
there's this there's this edge case
there's this edge case technically with
html5 semantically each section could
have its own h1 like that that's that's
changed now like that's different
they couldn't contain themselves they're
like they're literally yelling at the
screen right now
they just they just can't contain it um
that that they're all there they had
they had to hit up stack overflow yet
today like it just boiled out of them
they like it just fell out their mouth
they couldn't they couldn't hold
themselves back
yes the codeweenies
i don't care about them
it's not the time to nitpick
we're all here trying to get the general
picture
there will always be edge cases
right there will always be caveats to
the things that we're learning
but when it's day one of html on your
journey to become a software engineer
you don't need to give a [__] about any
of that
release yourself feel the weight come
off your shoulders to not write perfect
code
we love
we love to write vomity code here
right we love to write vomiting code
i'll bring this little this little logo
up whenever i'm writing vomit code
because i just don't care
remember this isn't this isn't a coding
tutorial this is a jobs program
i'm trying to get you to have a wide
breadth of knowledge that you can use to
build out a series of amazing projects
to get clients and ultimately get the
job they're going to be some things that
are chunky vomity that don't look good
but i don't give a crap because i rather
you learn than become a codeweeny
and if you're not okay with that that's
fine
some people have to be perfect they have
to be right but that's an awful lot of
energy to expend
when you still don't really know that
much about html
let's get the job done
let's get our sites built
right and then we can worry about being
perfect i really like to
hearken this to learning a language
some people will sit there and study the
conjugations of the word to be for five
hours instead of having a conversation
with someone
you're way better off having a
conversation than you are sitting there
conjugating in the dark room by yourself
don't be that person
get the wide breath of knowledge be able
to build be able to bring things into
existence to make things exist that did
not exist by the end of this class you
will be able to build basic websites
it doesn't matter if you got
the semantic update to html5 that
sections can include h1s
cool
all right
cool so we can also have
h2s threes fours
fives and sixes
and the way we know when to move from a
two to a three is based on the
importance like how important is that
heading as opposed to another so
sometimes you'll have twos then you'll
have threes because that content is less
important than the other
cool
now we have some other tags
that we are going to learn tonight and
some of them we've already kind of seen
we have paragraphs which are for large
blocks of text
we have spans which are for short pieces
of text so if you have a big block of
text right that would be a paragraph if
you have a small piece of text that
would be a spam like that's what you're
going to wrap it in as a span and then
we have the pre tag which is an
abomination it should never be used it
should be yeted into oblivion
and let's just move on
like leon what's a pretext so here's
what a pre-tag does
a pre-tag when you're writing out your
html keeps all the white space the
enters the carriage returns and all that
stuff right
all that stuff right
all that stuff gets put on the site so
all that spacing that positioning that
movement that gets put onto your site if
you use a pre-tag why do you think i
don't like pre-tags
why do you think i don't like pre-tags
that's css there's nothing you can ever
convince me that that's not css
and that leads us to talk about nerd
fights so
at this point you're gonna start to
realize that some of my opinions are
opinions
and here's the most beautiful thing
about learning specifically front end or
even any programming is that there's
often not a 100 correct way of doing
things
right for some folks that's very freeing
and for some folks that's very
frustrating the idea that there's never
going to be like a 100 correct way of
doing something what you're going to
have is a bunch of nerds arguing over
what is the correct thing
right and so
i bring this story up whenever i teach
this class no one ever believes me this
is a true story but i promise you with a
true story i have lost a friend over the
br tag
so i was at a tech meet up with my
friend
uh we were a few beers deep eating some
some good food as you'd normally do at
tech meetups
and uh
got to talking somehow about the br tag
i said the br tag introduces uh a space
that's an abomination that's clearly
style the hr tag puts a line that's
clearly a border
right
and so to me
that's that's style there's nothing
you're going to ever say to convince me
that introducing spacing pushing stuff
away is not something that should be
handled with css now
was i right and they wrong are they
wrong and i right no
we both nerds at the end of the day
yes
now the beautiful thing
is that really good engineers like
really good entry-level engineers like
the folks that are here watching the
stream the best entry-level engineers
that i've worked with do something very
special
they form strong
opinions but they hold them weekly let
me say that one more time
they form strong opinions
but they hold them weekly what that
means as as you are writing your html
tonight and as you are writing your html
this weekend you are going to be tasked
to pick the appropriate semantic html
tag and that will be your decision
you have to come up with reasons
why you chose that tag
once you are on a team or working with
other developers if they present
a better way of doing something
then you let go of that assumption that
you've made that decision that you made
when they present the better argument
but you don't want to go into your code
just like you're weak
by accident you want to be making good
strong semantic decisions and thinking
behind the moves that you make
now
i'll say it i said it last class and i'm
going to say it this one
because there's a lot more people here
friend
you're watching this maybe the twitter
went viral i don't know
i apologize
i shouldn't have
raised my voice in the way that i did
around the br tag i would like to be
friends again so if you ever do happen
to see this send me a message
let's go grab a beer even though that's
where this started and uh
maybe we can talk about all the new
stuff that's coming out
all right
we got some other tags
we got some other text
if
you see an m tag when you wrap content
in an m tag
it makes that content
all right it makes that content look
italicized
and when you wrap content in a strong
tag it makes that content bolded
if you use an m
or a strong tag
did you violate separations of concerns
but yes or no in chat for me please
if you used an emmer strong tag did you
violate separation of concerns yes or no
you're both right
all of you are right if you wrote yes or
no you're right let me tell you why
you're right
so
if you used an m tag and a strong tag to
make it italicized or make it bold you
[__] up right
we do not choose html tags based on how
they are going to look
the beautiful thing however is that m or
strong tags do something else
their accessibility tags
what they do is they provide emphasis to
words that screen readers can pick up on
right so
when you go to a website and there could
be a banner at the top that's flashing
red uh saying like warning like we've
just been hacked or you go to a website
and it's like flashing like yellow
there's a sale there's a sale there's a
sale
if you have the means to see the page
you would be able to see that there is a
sale going on
right you'll be able to see that there
is a sale going on but if you had a
visual impairment you might not be able
to see that sale so how do we convey to
our users emphasis
well that's where these tags come in the
hand so if you use these tags
right if you use these tags to provide
emphasis to folks that might have an
accessibility concern then you're doing
the right thing but if you chose these
tags based on how they look that
violates separations of concerns
now the beautiful thing is it just so
happens that these m and strong tags
make them look that way but we can
always overwrite how it looks with what
we can always write how it looks with
what
exactly
there we go chat here we go pop off css
cool
keep pushing here
we saw this one last class uh an ordered
list we saw an unordered list last class
well the sibling to the unordered list
is the ordered list
an ordered list expects that every
single thing in that list is coming in a
specific
order
i always think a great candidate for
ordered list are recipes
right they are recipes because if i pour
the brownie mix onto the pan put it in
the oven for 30 minutes pull out the pan
and sprinkle water on it i'm not gonna
have good brownies
they're not just not gonna be good
brownies right there's a specific order
to the brownies and so recipes uh smith
said directions exactly these are things
that make sense to be in an ordered list
as opposed to an unordered list where
it's still a list of stuff but there's
no specific order to it
so think of things like a grocery list
it doesn't have to be a specific order
to your grocery list actually
i found out there are some monsters
among us
uh last time i said that a grocery list
doesn't have to be a civic order uh i
got i got some people that reached out
and they're like leon
i
make sure
that my
that my grocery list right
is in the order
in which
i will move through the supermarket
right like they put the things on their
grocery list but it's like aisle by
aisle
does that
who does that
so in that case maybe it'd be an ordered
list but that's the that's some next
level efficiency there yeah they're
playing 5d chests out there
owl thank you for the hydration
hello thank you for the hydration
oh that's hilarious all right
containing elements a lot of what we're
going to do on the web is like
containing other content
and the beautiful thing with html5
is that we got a lot of new
containing elements
okay we got a lot of new containing
elements
before html5 we kind of use divs
everywhere
and so if you were using it if you're
doing a tutorial right if you're doing a
tutorial and it's not a react tutorial
and there are divs everywhere
run
it's not a good tutorial
right we we we have it's been years
we've progressed there are a lot better
containing elements
okay there are a lot better containing
elements containing elements that got
rich semantic meaning now it doesn't
mean that you can't use divs right let
me let me make that clear it's not that
you can't use divs it's just that we got
all of these
rich
right we have these rich semantic tags
that we can use instead
right and so sections help us group like
content
so if you had some content that was all
about liver frosted treats
what the heck would be a liver frost
retreat it just doesn't make sense but
if you're grouping like content and that
content is on
a dog food website then it makes a
little bit more sense so we got these
sections that are probably going to be
one of the bigger tags that you use it's
a it's a container that's going to help
us group all of our like content
together
we also got articles which are
containing elements that help us contain
things that are meant to be shared
think of like a newspaper article i
could clip that newspaper article out
and hand it to you
and you would be able to read it and
understand what the heck's going on you
don't really need other context for it
it might be helpful to know where it
originated from but you don't need it so
for content that's meant to be shared
think blog post articles we got a new
containing element called the article
tag
we also got a new tag called an aside
and the side stands for ancillary or
extra content according to the mdn
it was originally created because back
when the standard came out
sidebars were all the rage remember
sidebars so the aside was there
the aside was there to help with
sidebars now
the semantic meaning behind and aside is
for extra or ancillary content what do
you think might be a good candidate for
asides
what do you think is a good candidate
for his sides
yeah
ads exactly ads ads are all really good
candidates
for sides
beautiful
we also got headers and footers headers
are for content at the beginning of the
document helps us group our content at
the beginning of a document footer is
for grouping content at the end of a
document notice i didn't say top or
bottom because that gets too close to
css
and there are some really interesting
things like
articles can actually have their own
headers and footers so you're like leon
what the heck does this all mean like
what do you mean all these tags let's
take a look at some websites and let's
see if we can guess
what the tag would be i need to like
have like a millionaire sound that's
like let's see if we can guess the tag
all right so
i really love khan academy and i love
khan academy's website
if i was looking at khan academy's
website
what tag do we think this would be
what could this be
yeah in h1 now here's my question to you
why
would that content be the h1
more important question
ah
it's it's so good to see so
some folks i saw some folks that slipped
in here some folks said it because it's
the biggest
do we ever choose html tags based on how
big or how styled they're going to be
does it matter where it's located does
it matter anything about style no
the reason why that would be the h1 is
because it is the most
important thing on the page that's what
they want you to come here and remember
right for every student every classroom
real results if you think khan academy
that's what they want you to remember
right it is the most important thing now
if i wanted to i could make it real
small and put it all the way like in the
bottom corner i could just like eat it
over here
right
that would still work right i could use
css to make it small
and
dump it down into the bottom
right
but if it's the most important thing i'm
probably never going to do that but
remember
style positioning has no bearing on the
html tags that we use
cool
we got three hydrates in a row
uh burberry
newbie
cleo thank you for hydration cheers to
you
and thank everyone for the subs tonight
uh it's been pretty wild i appreciate
you all
that all goes directly into the
emergency fund at rc so thank you
all right
how about this big block of text here
what would that be
that was weird
yeah it's a paragraph big block of text
full sentence at least it's a paragraph
cool
um we also noticed something here are
you ready for this
look what happens when my mouse moves in
you see that
hey
turn up look that oh oh you can go fast
too hold up
what's handling that that behavior that
interaction what would that be
yeah yeah
i looked at chad it's already flooded
with javascript i love it yeah it'd be
javascript there's definitely some
javascript to foot here that's beautiful
all right how about we come down here
what about why iconic hat well actually
let's start here what would this big
block be it's kind of like gray i don't
know if you can see it but what would
that would that block be
what what tag would we use for that
block
yep that's a section that'd be a section
and how about
why khan academy works
would that be
definitely an h2 yep i think it's
definitely an h2
um
how about
we come down here
we kind of have like a no i was almost
perfect too we have another box here
right we have another box here what
would that box be
another box yep another section yep
another section nice how about khan
academy boost student learning
what would that be
oh this is like the first big point of
contention of the evening some people
are saying two some people are saying
three
i would argue that that's another h2
i think to me
to me right
why khan academy works
and khan academy boosts student learning
to me that is equally important
right to me that's equally important and
so for me those will both be h2s
right when we get down here
right i'm finally able to truly
differentiate my classroom that's when
it gets a little bit less that to me
h3
right that would be an h3 to me but up
here
these are both the same h2s and
h2s right that would be mine
we got paragraphs all over the place
boom boom boom
boom
how about here how about districts whoop
all right to the end
how about districts what could that be
span i think that's a span yeah
someone said how do you decide
importance
that's a phenomenal question that's a
really good question
how do you decide importance
it depends on the team that you are on
sometimes this will be up to you
specifically also if like you're a
front-end web developer you might be
making those decisions by yourself
sometimes you're working with a designer
that gives you the design and the
designer will say here's the hierarchy
of the site this should be this should
be that right
sometimes you're working with a ux
professional that would get their hands
dirty with that stuff
right
sometimes
you're working with marketing
and somebody from marketing will come
down in their their nice suit and say
actually this should be
an h2 this should be
an h1 like because of seo so the cool
thing about being a front end web
developer is you often actually work
with a lot of different people designers
user experience professionals marketing
other folks on your team right and so it
does really depend on who you're working
with how big your team is who makes
those decisions but
you all
need to start making those decisions for
yourself
you have to at the end of the day say
from what i know about the semantics of
the tags i have at my disposal this
makes the most sense and we're going to
see a lot of these over and over again
this is your first time for a lot of you
seeing these words
hearing the words coming out of my mouth
semantics
tags
that's that's that's scary [__]
it sounds like a lot but don't worry
we're going to see it over and over
again we will get our spaced repetition
in we're going to write some real code
together then we're going to review it
and then we're next we're going to do it
again we got that we're going to do it
again we will always get our repetition
in so if the very first time you hear a
word it doesn't make sense that's your
test
that's your frustration test
do you get frustrated and turn off the
stream
or do you stick it out you ask questions
do you go to discord after and be like i
had no idea what leon meant by span
right that's it this is this is your
this is your this is the moment
right mom spaghetti right
let's do
so i think that's pretty interesting
right like just looking at this site
we saw that the site was mainly
sections headings and paragraphs like we
could probably do
70 of this site
with just those three tags
like probably 70 of this site
sections headings and paragraphs like we
could probably get there throwing a few
spans
maybe an article like an anchor tag and
we did it
right like we got it and so yes these
things are hard yes these things are new
but it's really not that many
right you're going to learn about 15
today 30 over the next week or two and
then you'll be able to lay you'll be
able to build any site that you want in
terms of content with the stuff that we
learned today and next week so
hang with me
we're at the top of the hour so you know
that that means a break when we come
back you officially become a software
engineer when we come back from this
break your hands get on the keyboard
you're gonna write some actual real code
you're gonna earn that badge you're
gonna earn the messages that you said to
all your friends that you put out into
the world so please
if you're able get up move around
hydrate let your eyes focus on something
else we will be back together
in five minutes
all right folks get up hydrate move
around
i'll see you all soon
don't worry about the text editor yet
take your break we'll come back i'm not
going to lead you astray you got this go
take your break
so
hey
what split keyboard do i use i use the
kinesis advantage 2.
do i play magic
i did when i was younger i haven't
played it a long time
excuse me sorry
i got a hyperx keyboard with lights that
night that lights up yeah i got um
i have the logitech uh g like the 915
that's pretty pretty i use that for
gaming
what boom arm do i use i use the rode
pro whatever it is when everybody uses
i want a vertical mouse i really like my
rollerball mouse
it's really helpful you know
i i get really really bad wrist pain
like severe like have to go to the
doctors like my bones have rubbed
together it's pretty bad
um so
that plus split keyboard is like what
keeps the pain away
and i really take my breaks i stretch
out top of every hour even when you're
not here i take my breaks super
important
all right folks come on back come on
back
hope you had a good break
hopefully we would have stretched a
little bit grab some water
but i prefer one os over another i use
all of the i i use mac os
windows and gnu linux every day
all three of them so i don't really have
a preference i like doing my business on
mac os
i like doing my tinkering on new linux
and i enjoy gaming on windows so
they all have their tools to me i'm a
big fan of like
realizing that a lot of technology stuff
is really just about having tools on
your tool belt
a lot of people get really stressed out
in the beginning they're like leon
should i learn to learn angular should i
learn react should i learn
flim flop or flap flam or zaboomafoo
right
and um my answer is no you learn the
thing you need to learn when the job
requires you to learn it right and you
got to realize that they're all just
different tools on your tool belt of
success
right that's so cheesy but that is true
um sometimes i'm surprised what comes
out of my mouth but yeah they're just
all different tools they have their
their rhymes and their reasons that when
you should use them when you shouldn't
use them and so don't worry about having
to learn everything get good at a core
set of stuff and the skills that you
learn will be transferable to whatever
else you need to pick up
all right folks come on back
alrighty we're in the home stretch we're
going to start writing some real code
tonight you're going to have some lab
time to do it i'm just going to sit here
look pretty you're going to write some
code
let's get into it
all right so we looked at some websites
and we learned some tags
but it is interesting to note
that all the tags we started with
are not
still here
so back in the day i had a dragon ball z
pokemon harry potter fan site it was lit
had like pikachu running across the top
it like flashed a lot of those tags that
we used
are now we call deprecated
why do you think things like blinking
tags and marquee tags why do you think
we no longer use those tags
they go
yeah that's all that's all css or
somehow even javascript too
somebody said it looks dumb
yeah it was css right it was css or
javascript like we we've now separated
our concerns exactly it violates
separation of concerns we've separated
our concerns so that we can't have html
that does things like css or html it
does things like javascript so once we
separate those concerns we got rid of
those tags that are now called
deprecated
so
a lot of the tags that you might have
used back in the day
they might have been repurposed to
something that's a little bit more
semantically correct or they might just
be gone um so like b and i tags that
made stuff bold and italicized obviously
like those can't be used anymore you
have a tag to make something bold it's
something that makes italicized that
clearly violates separation of concerns
so they like tweak those tags to do
other things um i is really commonly
used for things like called font awesome
and other fun stuff that we'll get into
later but a lot of stuff we worried
about or used back in the day are gone
now i have a fun question i always like
to ask that's related to deprecated
elements
there's a survey that went out one year
to a bunch of software engineers and the
question was where did you get your
start as a software engineer now if you
know the answer to this don't spam it
but um
where did where do you think based on
the survey of like thousands of
engineers where do you think most
engineers
got their start as a software engineer
victoria thank you for the hydration
cheers to you
a lot of folks are saying myspace
believe it or not myspace was the number
two place the number one place
folks got their start as a software
engineer according to that survey
was
neopets
neopets let me say one more time the
number one place that these software
engineers
got their start with neopets back in the
day on neopets you could have like your
like your your pet pages and like store
pages and you could write html and like
write inline css and all these like what
would be now horrible practices that
violate separation of concerns that's
where most engineers got their start so
i want you to keep that in the back your
brain
the day
some software engineer
tries to tell you that you're not a
software engineer
that tries to gatekeep you from this
industry
you could tell them to go [__]
themselves
because they probably got their start on
[__] neopets
get out go home you cut it's over
you got your start on neopets
get the hell out of here
get out
alrighty
it's time for a lab
the
first true test in frustration
so
today
in the materials that you need it for
this class
if you are new around these parts
welcome we are doing a free 30-week
software engineer bootcamp where you can
go from zero technical skill to
employable if you would like the
materials the materials are shared on
our discord exclamation point discord we
have a follow-along materials channel
that has the zip for today
you all need that zip file now
what you're going to do
is unzip that file
each operating system has a different
way to unzip files
on mac os you can just double click on
it on most windows operating systems you
can typically right click and unzip or
extract here gnu linux has the ability
to unzip so you're going to need to
figure out the way
to unzip your file
if for some reason you cannot figure out
how to unzip that is okay
you're going to go to discord after
class and you're going to get help on
how to unzip your files
okay
thank you thank you indifferent
you can use other tools to unzip but the
idea is that you need to unzip that file
because inside of that file are the
files that we're going to use today
so i'm going to go ahead and show you
what's in those files
so from today
you can see that i have this lovely
class 2 materials zip i double clicked
on that zip because i'm using mac os
and
inside that file that i opened or that
file that i opened it wound up being a
folder that had two things in it
brownies html
and bbc image
right so you unzip
and you get both of those
files
now
what you're going to do
right what you're going to do
is open this brownies html file
in a
text
editor
right
in a text editor
right now the text editor that i am
using is called vs code
you can simply google vs code and you
will find the ability to download
that text editor
if for some reason
you cannot download a text editor to
your computer maybe it's a work computer
or something like that there are plenty
of websites that you can use that you
can just type directly in your browser
so you can use a website like glitch
glitch is completely free to use
and you can go ahead and start writing
your code directly in the browser
i like glitch over things like codepen
just because it's a little bit easier to
use to do more advanced stuff and i use
replit a lot as well
also again completely free
right inside of here you can just click
create
and then you can say that you want
html css and javascript and then you can
create the repl
so if for some reason you cannot
download vs code
right
you cannot download vs code you can
start with replit or glitch
right
cool
now
if for some reason you have trouble
downloading vs code you don't know how
to open it
the the the computer basics are a little
bit hard there you're gonna have to come
to discord we're going to help you out
there
right we're going to help you out there
some folks are saying like how do i open
it in reply well there's a couple ways
you can open files in here but one thing
that you'll note is if you click on this
brownies html
this brownies html is already an html
file so one of the interesting things
you can do is you can just open brownies
html in the browser and you'll see
all the text and content right there you
can copy and paste
to your heart's content
right
does vs code work with a chromebook
there is a newer version of vs code that
would
you can actually use vs code in the
browser now if you would like
but otherwise you're gonna have to
download it
okay
now like i said you do not need
to download vs code tonight you can use
glitch you can use replit directly in
your browser whatever browser you're
watching me right now right whatever
your browser you're watching me on right
now you can uh just use that with glitch
or replit
where are the materials the materials
are in the follow along materials
channel before every single class i will
always put the materials in there can
you use adam of course the text editor
is up to you however you wish whatever
one you used to use you can i will be
using vs code i recommend that you use
vs code
for the duration at least the beginning
of the program so that way all the stuff
i do is similar
all right
cool
all right so what i want to do is i want
to open
this brownie file
inside of my text editor
there are lots of places
that i can there are lots of ways i can
open that file in my text editor right
if i already have my text editor open um
i can simply do like file open and open
that file
a lot of times you might have the
vs code like in your dock and so what
you could do is you could drag this file
to vs code and it'll open
right so i just dragged that file right
to vs code and it opened it up for me
right
so there are many ways you can open the
file
in vs code file open
dragging the file right it's all open to
you
okay
now if you're if you're panicking you
don't know how to unzip files you're
having trouble opening it in a text
editor
right
you're gonna have to come to discord and
get that help remember this is your
first exercise in frustration
cool
so i decided to just drag the file
remember i unzipped the folder and then
i dragged that file into vs code
right now
my vs code is pretty
simplified right now right it's pretty
simplified
i
really
highly recommend
early on
not really adding stuff to vs code
don't use any of the tools or tips or
tricks that improve your workflow right
they're going to be stuff that makes
your code look prettier there'll be
stuff that automatically saves files for
you there's going to be stuff that will
make your life as a developer
right
much much easier
don't use those at the beginning
right now the reason why i tell you not
to add all those things or use those
tools in the beginning is because there
is nothing
more embarrassing
right than finally getting that
technical interview
and they use a platform that does not
have all your magic plugins and you
struggle to indent you struggle to save
you struggle to do the very very basics
and i've seen it happen seen gonna
happen multiple times so please
get used to doing stuff
manually
without all those gadgets until you feel
comfortable doing it on your own once
you feel comfortable you get all the
though you can zip zip zap through it
then add all that other stuff to make
your life easier
you know
specifically prettier like you want to
get good at indenting and stuff like
that just for a week or two just to make
sure you know it on your own right and
then you will
bring all that stuff back if you want
all right so once again
i'm using vs code here you do not need
to use vs code i unzip the folder i drag
out the file and i drag the file to my
vs code you could also have done file
open
i
am using vs code but you could have also
used glitch or any of the other kind of
browser-based editors for right now
all right
like i said if you're stuck on this step
you're gonna have to come to discord
cool
now
here we have a bunch of content
all of this content must be wrapped in
what
all this content must be wrapped in what
tags exactly
every bit of content on this page must
be wrapped in tags so
i come here
and i see
deep dish brownies chat what do you
think deep dish brownies should be what
should deep dish brownies be
yeah it's definitely our h1 so i'm going
to open my h1
and i'm going to close my h1 remember
our h1
the closing and the opening tags are
very similar except for that closing
slash
right
right now is my page saved
nope it's not saved how can you tell
you can tell because the
dot up here
right is
white and circle and not the x so i have
to save this so i did i did command s to
save
you can do
file save but getting used to your
shortcuts is really helpful so
on
on mac it's command s on windows it can
be control s right but get used to
saving
the biggest
the biggest issue that a lot of folks
have early on they'll come to me leon
why
right why
why is it not working
why why did these changes not like why
can't i see the changes in the browser
and it's almost always
because you didn't save so get used to
saving manually
right
alrighty so
we have a lot of content here
a lot of content here
i want you
to go through this content
and give your best honest attempt
at
semantically marking up this content
everything must be wrapped in tags you
can use the previous slides right you
can use the previous slides to get a get
a hint of tags
but you can also use the mdn
the mozilla developers network
if you need help looking up
tags right
i'm gonna let you try it
if you run across something odd
if you're if your stuff were on auto if
if it's not if your tech server is doing
something you don't want it to do
start with a google
people are throwing in chat how to fix
certain things but start with a google
get used to it right
and if you still need help with
something discord
alrighty
i'm going to put a 10 minute timer up on
the clock here uh just ignore me
for these 10 minutes just ignore me i'm
going to keep talking
i'm going to keep talking i'm going to
be answering people's questions in chat
but the expectation is that for these 10
minutes
you're writing code
so go ahead get your fingers moving
get the typing
get to wrapping each of this content in
tags
and then we're gonna do it all together
right so if you
get stuck you don't know how to do it
you're gonna have to be able to go
through it remember there's two
different sets of slides there are the
live slides right that only i control
and then they're the second set of
slides that you have full control over
so if there's the live link you can't
move those slides around only i can
the second link wasn't working but it
should be working now
if you opened it in the beginning you
got to give it a hard refresh
let's take a look at them
i'm gonna bring up my uh regular screen
just in case i pull up something for you
one second
just checking on the slides for folks
that are having trouble
hmm
i see the error now hold on i'm working
on it
working on the sides one second
public
what i'll also do is i'll just download
the slides for y'all
one second
i think slides.com is down
i think i think i think it's the actual
place i used to uh host the slides
checking it out still working on it
you can use the mdn or hopefully it took
questions you can actively recall
yeah i think it might have been i think
we might have crashed it because the uh
they were working but it won't even let
me export the um
don't even let me export
you need https to make the link let's
try
don't worry about it
i think we broke it
after class i will put the pdf into
discord
give your best shot this is a good
chance for actively recalling use the
mdn if you need it
zip file is on discord
if you're lost that's okay make sure you
come back after the five minutes we're
gonna go through it together this is
your first chance at trying to write
some code
folks are putting if you don't like the
auto closing tags people are putting
that in chat
so that that initial question you have
like how do you stop auto closing tags
that's a google question that's
something you definitely should use but
there's also people throwing the the
pattern in chat for you if you want it
preferences search html uncheck auto
close
beans googled it i love it
is there something is there something i
can do on your mobile yeah you can just
use glitch or
replit that work in the browser
i'll get round that's on your side
there is sound
the zip is in the follow along materials
channel
all the code will always be in that
hey how you doing thank you for the
hydration cheers to you
how do i revert the file you can do
ctrl z or command z to go back a step
yep the the zip file should not have the
brownies image
not to figure that out
we have an html and css help channel
okay murray what are you confused about
can a section have can can i have a
section one tag no the only ones that
have numbers are the heading elements
where is the brownies image i didn't
give you one
that's a fine one
nope no brownie image from me
do you know cobalt hell no
you need your dual monitors back yeah
they do help
yep just wrapping all the content and
tags exactly
do i play league no
that would just be the end of me
oh ryan the first stretch that i've seen
i used to do a
can't give you too much of the
stretching it's the only fan's goal
i could do this but not in 10 minutes
yeah that that's totally fine
done hey if you're done throw a gun in
there that's wild good job
wow crew came in
that's funny there must be like a like
like a
a peace
figured out the brownie that's good use
dmdn could have helped there
crunch time can you get it in
you can get it done
you finish up
run
alrighty folks
stop
come
regroup with us
no matter if you had trouble opening the
file are you finished
we took our 10 minutes
we're gonna stop we're gonna go over it
together
all right so come on back
come on back
yeah i know the person you're still
typing stop typing come on back
first of all
congrats
you're working with code
even if you struggled to open the file
you were still working with a code file
you're a software engineer if you wrote
a line of code you're a software
engineer so let's take a second i know
that can be very frustrating you know
some folks are still stuck that's okay
but you are now all
officially
software engineers you're struggling
you're in the muck with the code
over the next
30 weeks you're going to add the tools
and the knowledge behind that but right
now carry yourself high matter if you
got stuck you didn't know what you were
doing it didn't make sense that's okay
we'll get there together you're a
software engineer congrats
all right let's take a look at this
together
remember the vods are always available
right after we're done streaming so you
can always go and take a look at it all
right we got some stuff here
uh this first one is a tricky one we
haven't even seen images
so if you looked at this and you saw
images
right
remember you can also change your
quality settings since we're partnered
you can change your quality settings to
make it more less blurry like if it's
blurry you probably have the quality
settings too low
yeah
all right
now look
if you didn't know how to do we didn't
cover the image
so if you didn't know how to do the
image what could you have done
you know how to use an image tag what
could you have done
oh y'all next level y'all saying google
y'all saying mdn but you know what she
could have done
skipped it
could just skipped it went on to the
next thing
don't sit there
and bang your head against the keyboard
trying to do something that you don't
know how to do
you gave it a quick google
you looked on the mdn you didn't see it
yes skip it and then you come back to it
when you have more time
so for all of y'all that just stopped
here
let that be a lesson get all this other
stuff to figure out you could have
skipped it could have came back
could have figured it out later you
could have googled it had md end it you
could have gotten help on discord
right
but you have you have to think about
and the reason why i like to bring this
up is because
in uh less than six weeks you will all
be getting paid clients that'll be your
task is to get a paid client
and uh
let's say the client project is due in
10 minutes
do you want to tell the client hey
i got the image working it's the best
image you've ever seen it's a delicious
image of brownie but nothing else works
or do you want to say to your client all
the content is here everything looks
good we're just still tweaking this
image
right think about that
think about that
under promise over deliver exactly
cool
all right so if i didn't know how the
image worked i could go to the mdn
i could do something as very simple as
kind of like um google mdn
brownie
oh i'm so
i'm a big boy
mdn image
that was sad
oh man
clip it
[Laughter]
all right there we go i could have did
an mdn image and then boom here you go
everything i need to know about the
image tag
oh there's this source property
oh there's this alt property
source is required
alt does this other stuff for
accessibility all the stuff i would ever
need to know with very clear examples
the html is here for us we can see the
output
how wonderful
i love the mdn you should use the mdn
and you saw i didn't use any big brain
tricks here i just typed in
mdn brownie that didn't work so i typed
in mdn image and here you go your new
best friend the mdn shows you exactly
how to do
images
beautiful
all right
so let's go back
and uh let's let's take a look at some
of our code here and say all right well
based on this
i know i need to open my tag
and i need to close it
but something interesting
about images
is that they're one of the very few tags
that don't need an open and a close tag
the reason why images don't need an open
and a close tag is because it's already
content
for all these other things you're
wrapping around content
but the image is already content so it
is self-closing you don't need a closing
tag it already is the content instead of
wrapping around the content
cool
now
we saw on the mdn that we needed a
source so src equals
and the brownies.jpg
so that could be my source
and the interesting thing about the
source though is that i didn't give you
a brownies image
so we have to go get a brownies image
we could have a local image which means
that the image is on our computer or we
could go hot link somebody else's image
that's what we're going to do
we're going to go
and uh google brownies
let's get some images here
oh
it's gonna be a problem
yeah
all right
right click
copy image address
all right copy image address
he's taking his time with it
and then in the source
i'm gonna paste that image address
right
there you go i just went to the image i
right clicked
copy image address and i pasted it into
my source so now
when i open this brownies html remember
i could drag the html file to the
browser
you can right-click open if you want to
there's so many ways you can get this
file open in the browser
for me let's see
i already have
it open here so what i'll do
is i will bring up my browser
and i'm going to drag
the file into my browser
and there we go it opened it up
right
that looks delicious
so what i did here is i gave it a source
and i grabbed an image source just from
a random image on the internet uh you
can go to pretty much any image you want
on the internet and right click on it
and copy image address
that's going to give you the image
address right you copy that
you paste it into your source and you're
good to go this is called hot linking
this is not a file on my computer
i am using this file from buzzfeed uh
this could cause me some problems down
the line
if i kept it this way
what what could happen if i kept the
source this way
oh you're thinking big brain you're
saying like copyright no
i don't own this image i don't own where
it's stored i don't own the server that
it's sitting on so buzzfeed could change
this link
right could change this link and then my
image would break
right
or
worse
if you were little leon back in the day
and somebody hot linked your image
well they own that server they could
change this to whatever the heck they
wanted
i could i could think it would be
brownies and i come in the next day and
it's a picture of rubber ducks
or if you were back on the forums in my
day it wasn't rubber ducks i'll tell you
that much all right
right so they control it
right they control it and so they can
change whatever they want so there's a
chance that it could break in the future
so next week we'll download our images
and i'll show you how to use the images
that are on like your side like your
local or your server right
but it could break and since it could
break we want to make sure that we also
have a what if we know that this this
might break in the future what do we
want to also give it
yeah we want to give it an alt
so alt is something that we also saw in
the mdn and we can just say brownies
right so now
if for some reason this image was to
break and not show up the user would
still see
brownies like they would still know that
that should have been a brownie photo
the other wonderful thing is that
for accessibility if someone has a
visual impairment and maybe they're
using a screen reader they can know what
that image is by
having the alt text read to them so
somebody with a visual impairment
wouldn't maybe not be able to see the
brownies but they would be able to hear
that it was a brownie and then google's
kind of moved on from this a little bit
but it does help seo too like google
might have an easier time figuring out
that these are brownies
can you can you test messing with the
link sure
so let's get rid of the b
i'm going to save i'm going to go back
to my my site here
so boom
it broke
but look
you see next to the broken helmet i can
make this bigger
next to the broken image is the word
brownies so the alt tag is there right i
broke that link and so you can still see
the alt tag so even though the image is
broken i know that that was brownies
cool
all right so we got our image tag going
and uh next to this image tag
we see this thing here
uh that looks weird it's like it's like
a different color and that definitely
wasn't in the brows like if i go back i
don't see the word hint
like if i make this a little bit bigger
there's no word hint here
right so that's called a comment
a comment is a way of like leading
leaving a note for yourself or a note
for another developer it doesn't
actually make its way into the browser
it's just in the file for you to see it
it's called a comment
in html the comments are made by doing
our
uh arrows and then our bangs so this we
call exclamation point bangs so you'll
do your left carrot or your left arrow
we're going to call it your left carrot
bang
hyphen hyphen and on the end hyphen
hyphen right carrot right anything you
put in between
this
and this is now a comment it won't show
up in the browser
there's also typically shortcuts to do
this right um nvs code and a lot of text
editors if you do command and then
forward slash it automatically turns it
into a comment for you that was command
forward slash control
forward slash beans thank you for the
gift it subs right so there are ways to
do these comments that'll be important
all
right
if the image is large we can fix it with
css exactly let me go and put the b back
here
cool
next i have this recipe by biz mcmahon
what were you feeling for the tag here
what tag should we use for biz here
what types we use for biz
h2
one so here's a question for you
um
have you ever read
who made the recipe like is that
important to you when you go to a recipe
website
never
i don't think i've ever landed on a
recipe and gone oh that's biz i'm i'm
dipping out of here [__] that guy like
no
i've never i've never even cared before
right so to me there's no way that
that's an h2
that's so not important that it has to
be like i don't know
like an h4 at least right like like just
not anything that's important
right now
i am jumping here there is some
accessibility things that we have to get
to where we go from ones to twos to
threes and we should lay out our content
more accessibly but for now let's just
focus on making good semantic decisions
here okay so for me that's just not
important so it's at least a four
now here's the thing
you might be
a rachel ray household
right
you might only cook rachel ray recipes
if it's not rachel ray
you ain't cooking it
so to you that might be an h2 it might
be really important to you and so that's
where these semantic decisions have to
be made that's why there's never going
to be one exact
way to do this if i give this site to 10
different
front-end developers i might get 10
different versions of the same code back
right now some people are saying why is
it not a span
to me it's a heading it describes what
comes after everything that comes after
that line right everything that comes
after that line is the recipe by biz
right so to me it's a heading
it's not just a short piece of text it
definitely does describe what comes
after a spam would just be a short piece
of text
right so to me it's a heading it does
describe what comes after
cool
how about related recipes
what do we think that is
to me that's an h2
it's really important to me
that
if you don't like my deep dish brownie
recipe you go to my other recipes
right so if you don't like the deep dish
brownie recipes you go to my other
recipes so h2 is really important for me
here
cool
so i'm going to go ahead and make this
an h2
right
cool
and then here
i have a what what are what are all of
these
yes that's a list of the related recipes
um so this is a list of all the red
recipes but i'm going to do something a
little funky here stay with me for a
second so it's definitely a list of
recipes so that's a ul
uh it's not in any specific order so
it's not an ordered list it's definitely
an unordered list of recipes
but all of them are yes people are
thinking they're all links to those
recipes so it's a list
of links
so
i am going to use some developer magic
here
you can as you're clicking hold down
command
or control or alt depending on what type
of operating system you're using
michelle hey thank you for the gift
itself 20 gift itselves wow i appreciate
that shell i appreciate you thanks for
stopping by
that's wild thank you so much
so you can hold down command
control
right or alt depending on your operating
system and then wherever you click you
got to keep it held down for me it's
command
wherever you click you get the repl
right you get the reply
right and so now i can do whatever i can
tab them in
i can do my li
i can start my anchor tag
i can give them all an href just as a
placeholder we're going to put an
octothorpe in there i can jump to the
end for me it's command right arrow it
might be control right hour if you want
to jump to the end and then i can go
ahead and close my anchor tags i can go
ahead and close my allies
right so how do i do that again i got
you
uh depending on operating system for me
it's command so i would just hold down
command
and wherever i click while holding down
command i get that reply
for you it might be control or it might
be alt it does depend on your operating
system
cool once you're doing that you'll
notice that you have this little
flashing
rebel
that flashing replica
means that you can now type on each one
of those lines
yep all for windows and gnu linux yup
there you go
cool
and so that's how i was able to do it
but i knew that this was a a list of
links and so each one of these links is
wrapped in an li
and then it's wrapped in an anchor tag
and right now i don't actually have the
links to the chewiest brownies i don't
have the link to the can't you tell i
don't have the link to the bodacious
brownies so i just put an octothorpe in
here
some people might call that the pound
sign or if you're hip a hashtag
but
in programming we call them octothorpes
yeah or sharp exactly noctothorp
cool
let's look down here how about prep time
what are we feeling for prep time chat
i'm feeling like a an h2 here
i think that's really important i think
it's like the only thing i look at i
look at like is it rachel ray and is it
like going to take me a long time so
that to me is an
h2 like i said you gotta make your own
semantic decisions make your own
semantic decisions
if you if you don't think that's an h2
what the heck am i doing if you don't
think that's an h2 that's okay it's okay
make your own semantic decisions
how about 60 minutes what is that
it's a short piece of text if it's a
short piece of text
that's a span for me
yep that's a span for me
and for me short piece of text
beautiful
all right how about servings
some people really care about the
servers that could also be like an h2
again maybe an h3
i don't know the servings matter
i'm a big boy i'm gonna eat the whole
thing anyway
yeah
h2h3 i don't know maybe hd just so we
can see something new just so we can see
something new that the most demanding
i'm not sure and probably a span again
right
span with the nine
there we go
case you always check for servings
that's good to hear i i don't think i
i'm gonna eat the whole thing anyway
don't matter
all right
why is it a span instead of a paragraph
because it's a short piece of text if it
was like a long piece of text like a
sentence or more then we're talking
paragraph but short piece of text that's
a span
cool
all right
ingredients what do we think that is
how do we feel about ingredients
i think that's an h2 as well
h2 as well yeah
if you're like leon i have no idea what
the hell you're doing right now that's
okay
it's all right guess what
you have homework that's gonna walk you
through
all of these things you literally have
homework it's gonna that's gonna span
you a couple hours of you sitting down
with this material again so if it
doesn't make sense in this moment that's
okay this is your first time seeing a
lot of this stuff this is your first
time seeing a lot of this stuff give
yourself some grace it'll come
all right
i don't like how this is like all
indented already
oh
so the thing is here eventually we're
going to start to notice some
indentation like leon why did you indent
here
uh we have something called parent child
relationships right we have parent child
relationships where these lie since
they're inside the ul that parent-child
relationship you put a little respect on
the name and you give it a little bit of
an indentation don't worry about that
for right now but if you're like leon
why are you indenting that's because we
have some parent child relationships
that we got to deal with
cool
all right so we have the ingredients
what is what is this here what do we
think this is we have the ingredients
what is this
yeah it's a list so again
is this an unordered list or an ordered
list
yeah unordered right it doesn't matter
if i put the eggs before the vanilla
it's not like when i use them it's just
the things i need to grab from the
grocery store
so unordered lists
i'm going gonna put all of this stuff
inside of my list
and then i'm gonna use my developer
magic again now the cool thing is
you don't have to click
right you don't have to click look at
this
i'm not clicking
i'm just pressing the down arrow so on
mac i can do command alt
and then just press the down arrow and i
get the reply going all the way down my
list
right on your operating system might be
different there's gonna be something for
different for windows or something for
gnu linux uh but for me yeah there you
go control alt down arrow on windows
people are saying
yep
yep yep
there you go
beautiful
we already have we got code weenies
that's not a rebel
you see the code weenie oh boy
they found us they got us
all right cool there we go
now
now we can go ahead and do our li
we can jump to the end
there we go beautiful so now each of our
ingredients are wrapped in in an li
beautiful
cool
almost at the top of the hour we're
going to finish this out we'll do our
raid and we'll end it there so let's
finish this up together maybe another
two minutes or so to finish this up and
then we'll do our raid
alrighty direction what we say that
would be
ah yes our lovely h2 again directions
are very important
let's go ahead and
do our h2 here once again we're going to
have the ingredients that we have to
wrap in our lovely ul
there we go
i'm gonna we could just break it down
here i'm just gonna copy everything i'm
gonna paste it in
boom
alrighty now
is this a ul
uh y'all paying attention look at you
y'all paying attention no that's not a
ul
no well
all right
oh well
right oh well
anybody ever watch the mistborn trilogy
or sorry read the mistborn trilogy
ren always tells his sister
that i will betray you
and then one day ren betrays
all right and so you gotta you gotta you
gotta be on your your tippy toes around
here right
all right some things won't always be
correct you gotta you'll be like leon ah
that's not that's not that's not a ul
that's an oh well
all right i will betray you
call it out when you see it
beautiful we got the ol
now we're going to go ahead and click
for our lis
this one's a little bit weird because
when i jump to the end i won't actually
be at the end for each of these lines
don't worry about that for now
we can clean that up though
i'm oops clean this up so the lies are
actually at the end of each thing
my screen's all magnified in so it's a
little different on here
all right
here we go
beautiful you betrayed us last time you
said domino's was good get out of here
delicious
s tier
you can press n key on control like uh n
key on windows mac i do command and my
arrows to move around
cool so we got our ordered list
uh how about tip
what do you think the tip should
be yeah i'm feeling like an h3 here yeah
like
do you do you ever read the tips though
who reads the tips
do you ever read the the drivel that
comes before the recipe
my
my great grandfather tripped on a penny
and uh that penny we then wished in a
fountain and we've got a genie and that
genie is the one that delivered this
recipe and so i hope you enjoy this
recipe coming to your your household
right now
you know why they do that
you know why they put all that stuff in
there
when i was doing this for the last class
i found out that the reason why they do
all that extra text
is because it makes it so that it's
harder to have like a copyright claim
like recipes are completely not
copyrightable but that like stuff they
spill out it has like a slightly better
chance of being copyrightable and then
um the other thing too is seo right
cool
so tip or you're saying h3 h4 i could
see it i think i think for me i don't
think i read it but it seems like a lot
of you do read them so i'll listen to
y'all and i'll say h3
beautiful and then
big piece of text definitely a sentence
or more what should that be
paragraph beautiful
i'm gonna close my paragraph nice
nutritional info
you already know what that's gonna be
yup
come on now
nice little span here
all right nobody ready to get out of
here you ain't looking at the calories
i'm a big boy
that don't play around here no
nutritional info in this house get out
of here
h6 if there was a if there was an h8
i'll be using it but there isn't that's
that's how you know h6 is the is the
lowest
that's how you know h6 is the lowest
because if there was something lower
i would have used it right then and
there
that's how you know
all right
let's finish this up
we got another we got another uh string
here
what do we got here what are we doing
another paragraph okay
another paragraph and then inside this
paragraph we have another what
yeah we got another anchor tag
and the cool thing is that this anchor
tag already has the what here yeah we
have the href beautiful
cool
let's go ahead and close that up close
up that carrot
and then
make sure that we close up our anchor
tag
chat we did it look at us
now
do i care what this looks like in the
browser
nope
right because that we're choosing html
we don't choose html based on how it
looks
right we don't choose html based on how
it looks
we'll get to that with css
all right we'll get to that with css now
there are some more things that we
didn't get to tonight because we're
going a little bit over time i want to
stop here
when we come back on tuesday
we're going to see some more tags we're
going to see some some forms
we're going to see
uh the actual structure of html we're
going to see like the header and the
footer we're gonna see
uh these other pieces that we might have
heard a little bit of but we're gonna
put that all together on tuesday
between now and tuesday
y'all got a lot of homework
like a lot of homework you got two
videos by ali abdal to to watch you got
a whole learning how to learn course on
coursera to get through you have a whole
learning how like learning about html
through learn.shayhow right so you have
all the stuff that you got to get
through between now and next week
if you want this code this code will be
shared with you on discord after class
so anytime i write code i will always
just upload it on discord in the follow
on materials channel
after class so
i think the reason why the slides aren't
working right now is because i think we
have so many people using them i have to
like upgrade my payment tier on the
slides
so i'll figure that out as soon as we
get we're done going live i'll share all
the code with you on discord we have a
lot of reading to get through tonight
but before you leave we're going to do a
raid remember
we like to hang around here we like to
go spread positivity to other folks and
so we're going to go ahead and do that
right now we're going to go and set up a
raid and remember when you're ready to
get more channel points those channel
points actually help you do a lot of
stuff and so we're going to go ahead and
start a lovely raid here
and we're going to go over
to someone that we've we've rated in the
past
they're learning too
uh and so that could be that could be
fun so let's go ahead and uh go over to
them remember
red love positivity give them some
follows if you're not already following
cool all right starting the raid now
it'll take about 10 seconds and i'll see
you i'll be hanging out over there uh
please if you got stuck tonight if
things didn't make sense if it was hard
if you feel like you need some extra
help that's what discord is for please
come to discord we will help you you
will get unstuck you'll figure out how
to open things you'll figure out how to
type but please be consistent set up a
plan right how are you going to study
each day how are you going to do the
things that you want to do
make sure this weekend
you don't go into the weekend like an
accident go into the weekend with a
study plan and i will see you all on
sunday
for office hours i hope you had a
wonderful second class i will see you
all on sunday for office hours remember
they're optional you have to be there
but i'll be answering tons of questions
uh if you have questions about the stuff
we covered today that's what office
hours is for and then on tuesday we're
back at it we're gonna dive deeper into
html we're gonna make it make sense
we're gonna have more fun with it so
good luck with your homework good luck
with the raid i'll see you all over
there now peace everyone
you